# A 13.56MHz Wireless Power and Data Transfer Receiver Achieving 75.4% Effective-PowerConversion Efficiency with 0.1% ASK Modulation Depth and 9.2mW Output Power Yu Wang1, Dawei Ye1, Liangjian Lyu1, Yingfei Xiang1, Hao Min1, C.-J. Richard Shi1,2

VENUE
"2018"

FIGURE NUMBER
"Figure 8.4.2 shows the system architecture of the WPDT receiver. It consists of a 13.56MHz ASK receiver and WPT circuitry. The receiver is able to demodulate the ASK signal with MD as low as 0.1%. A cascaded SL chain is used to amplify the signal envelope on the coil. Since the SL can inherently suppress the large carrier and amplify the small AM signal simultaneously, the gain saturation caused by the carrier is alleviated, thus there is no need to use extra frequency translation for demodulation, removing the need for a power-hungry local oscillator (LO). After the SL chain, the signal is down-converted by the envelope detector (ED) for further amplification and filtering and is finally output to the baseband. On the WPT side, an active rectifier extracts DC power from the carrier. Due to the verylow MD, the envelope of the signal is nearly constant, and the EPCE of the active rectifier is not deteriorated. The rectified voltage (Vrec) is up-converted by a stepup (SU) switched-capacitor power converter (SCPC) to high potential to charge external battery through an active diode. A 100:1 current mirror duplicates the charging current and feeds to the DIM, which generates six control bits to a programmable capacitor bank (CB) for the best impedance matching. A stepdown (SD) SCPC powered by the external battery is also designed as an alternative power source for the loads, in case that the rectified voltage is too low to provide the supply voltage. To achieve higher PCE, a conversion ratio adapter (CRA) for both the SU and SD SCPC is used to determine the CR of the two SCPCs."

TYPE
"Wireless Power and Data Transfer Receiver Achieving 75.4% Effective-PowerConversion Efficiency"

TECHNOLOGY
"CMOS"

APPLICATION
"wireless"

SUB-BLOCKS
[
  "capacitor",
  "resistor",
  "transistor/MOSFET",
  "cross-coupled pair",
  "current mirror",
  "mixer"
]

FUNCTION SUMMARY
"Wireless Power and Data Transfer Receiver Achieving 75.4% Effective-PowerConversion Efficiency"

METRICS
[
  "Frequency",
  "Efficiency / ratio",
  "Power consumption",
  "Process node",
  "Output power"
]

NUMERICAL PERFORMANCE
[
  "13.56MHz",
  "75.4%",
  "0.1%",
  "9.2mW",
  "8%",
  "100%",
  "847kHz",
  "3 w",
  "65nm",
  "8.5dBm"
]

CONFIDENCE
1.0
