# VSWR-Protected Silicon Bipolar Power Amplifier with Smooth Power Control Slope Angelo Scuderi1, Antonino Scuderi2, Francesco Carrara1, Giuseppe Palmisano1

VENUE
"2004"

FIGURE NUMBER
"Figure 10.7.1 shows a simplified schematic of the proposed amplifier. The circuit is composed of three gain stages (T1-T3). On-chip inter-stage matching networks were designed for maximum gain under large-signal conditions. A bond-wire inductance and capacitor were used between the first and second stages, while two capacitors and a spiral inductor were employed between the second and third stages. An on-chip input matching network was also implemented by means of two bond-wire inductances at the emitter and base of the first stage. An output series-resonant load was used to improve PA efficiency. Bond-wire inductance LW and a partially distributed output matching network were suitably employed to provide a high reactive impedance for the harmonics of the fundamental frequency (mixed-C mode or Class C-E). A bias circuit was included allowing a power control function to be achieved by varying the collector quiescent current of each stage through the external voltage VCTRL. According to measurements [2],"

TYPE
"VSWR-Protected Silicon Bipolar Power Amplifier"

TECHNOLOGY
"GAAS, HBT, MMIC, BJT, 8µm process"

APPLICATION
"microwave, rf, wireless"

SUB-BLOCKS
[
  "inductor",
  "capacitor",
  "resistor",
  "transistor/MOSFET",
  "current mirror",
  "transformer",
  "bias circuit"
]

FUNCTION SUMMARY
"VSWR-Protected Silicon Bipolar Power Amplifier"

DESIGN PURPOSE
"An exponential law was implemented to smooth the power control characteristic by using the bias network outlined in Figs. 10.7.2a and 10.7.2b, where ⎛ ⎞ V I R A CTRL E 2 2 2 ⎜⎜ ⎟⎟ = I I exp (1) REF BIAS V I R A ⎝ ⎠ T E 1 1 1 The translinear approach allows temperature compensation by using a ..."

METRICS
[
  "Supply voltage",
  "Process node",
  "Capacitance",
  "Operating / oscillation frequency",
  "Efficiency / ratio",
  "Output power"
]

NUMERICAL PERFORMANCE
[
  "10.7 V",
  "0.8µm",
  "0.7fF",
  "2GHz",
  "6.5V",
  "22GHz",
  "400µm",
  "1.8GHz",
  "50%",
  "33.8dBm"
]

CONFIDENCE
0.8

WARNINGS
[
  "Recommended figure was classified as 'analysis_model', not a schematic; manual confirmation strongly recommended."
]
